---
layout: post
title:  "Day 388"
date:   2016-06-18 18:05:00 -0300
categories: MyJourney
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Man! So much has changed since the last time I wrote here. In my last post I
told that I'd signed up to a [Campus Code](http://campuscode.com.br). What I didn't
know was that this training was going to turn my life upside down, for good.
<!--more-->

As you can see in my [GitHub](https://github.com/gionaufal) history, I had the
most productive time when I was doing the Web Immersion training at Campus Code.
This is because their training was fully focused on practicing your developer's
skills. There I learned a lot about Ruby, Rails, TDD using Rspec and Capybara,
and so much more.

By the end of the training I had created, solo or in groups, 3 projects from
scratch. My group's last project was called The Walking Dog, and you can see it
[here](https://github.com/gionaufal/TheWalkingDog).

But the most important part of this training was to show me that I could do it.
I could quit the job that I disliked, quit my Marketing career and live like a
developer. I realized that being a dev requires only practice and dedication.

This was in the middle of October. I started searching for jobs, but I had a
problem: I had just married, my wife was also quitting a job that damaging her
and the junior positions that I was finding would not pay enough for both of us.
I was facing a dilemma: I knew that I could be a good developer, but I had to
find someone that thought the same way.

By the end of November I was participating in a process to be a junior dev at
Locaweb. This process would pay 14 devs to make the same training that I had
already made, but required the participants to be almost 2 months available,
without working. I was selected to this last phase of the process, but I
couldn't afford this time without payment, so I declined. 

That was when Campus Code's owners saw that I was really wanting to be a
developer, so they offered me a job position there, to be part of their new
'incubation' projects. I would work in a project for Locaweb, the same company
that I wanted to be hired at. I would still not earn enough money to sustain our
house with the same standard, but my wife supported me and we had some savings,
so I said yes!

I started there on February. Initially I developed some feature for Campus
Code's website, but soon I started working on Locaweb's projects. I developed a
new SKU for a product that the company was launching and fixed a lot of bugs. I
had never worked with legacy code before, and this project was a great
introduction to it.

As soon as I changed my LinkedIn profile to 'Ruby on Rails Web Developer' I
started receiving job proposals. It didn't matter to the companies that I had
little working experience, the things that I had done until then seemed to be
enough. Also, I was told that my previous experience with marketing and product
management could be much valuable to companies, specially startups.

And so, five months have passed. I was receiving a lot of good job offerings
with good salaries, but none of the companies seemed right for me. I was looking
for a place where I could develop and increase my skills. I told my bosses about
it, and they managed to arrange me some pair programming tests at Locaweb with
teams that they thought I would fit. At the time I was working close to a team
at the company, and already had access to the place. It seemed like the right
place for me to work.

After two pair programming sessions, I was offered a mid-level developer
job! I was skipping a step, would be part of a nice team and would have many
challenges and opportunities to learn.

So, now I'm here, the first week of my new job. I have to thank everyone that
believed (and still believe) my potential, including my wife and the guys at
Campus Code. Without them this career change would be much more difficult.

I intend to write again about my journey here, or at my [Medium
profile](http://medium.com/@gionaufal). Keep tuned!
